Agenda and minutes for the 2023-06-08 meeting on follow-ups and preventions

In the interest of keeping the meeting productive, we are inviting a narrow set of members
from the community, mostly people working on mod repositories, and people who helped
organize the incident response. Please don't feel excluded if you weren't asked to attend.

Please do not comment on this file or any commits touching it on GitHub. You will be
ignored and if you spam we'll delete your comments and block you from the org.

## Time
2023-06-08 9AM PT

## Attendees

* EMI (initial responder)
* gdude (Quilt)
* Geometrically (Modrinth)
* IMS (CaffeineMC)
* modmuss (Fabric)
* williewillus (incident journalist; Violet Moon)
* TODO (CurseForge contacts)

## Agenda
We have about an hour so let's spend 15 minutes on each topic max.

### Opaque Review Processes/Security by Obscurity

#### Discussion and action items

- What does CurseForge/Modrinth *do* when reviewing a mod?
- What checks *are* being run?
  - ?
- What checks *should* be put in place?
  - Static analysis?

### Code Signing
Binary artifacts released to mod repos should be signed by their author.

Templates and help docs for e.g. Fabric Loom and ForgeGradle should make the UX as easy as
possible to:

* Build releases in CI
* Sign jars in CI at build time
* Upload the signed jars to mod repos in CI
	
Moving release creation to CI is already more than what many modders do (most people don't
even tag their releases). Keep in mind many modders are amateur programmers that have not
worked in industry and don't know what any of this is.

I can't stress how important it is for this to be as well documented, easy, and
ready-to-use as possible this is, or else no one will use it.

Eventually, mod repos should require signatures for every single upload and reject any
unsigned artifact outright. This will need a rollout period, and still require good
education materials.

#### Discussion and action items

- Where should public keys be held and associated with their authors? In other words, what
  prevents a hacker from replacing a public key as well as the signed binary at the same
  time?
  - In the modrinth user account (behind 2fa)?
	- Without organization accounts this can be annoying for mods that can be uploaded by
      multiple people?
	- If Modrinth is compromised a hacker can replace the pubkey and uploade a new signed
      binary at the same time
- PGP signing or java jarsigner stuff?
  - PGP is the standard and used for Maven Central. My impression is no one uses the java
    specific stuff. OpenSSH signing is also an option but is much newer and has no
    established ecosystem. PGP is probably the best choice, unfortunately. We can automate
    away all the crappy parts of it with helpers in Gradle plugins.
- Prior art
  - Forge has had support for signature stuff for years and it's gone unused. What can we
    learn from it?
- Launchers should likely include UI elements to indicate mod signing status.
- Immediate followups
  - Modrinth and CurseForge design how public key association/storage will work
  - Mod loaders write extensive documentation about how to:
	1. Create releases in CI using git tags
	2. Automatically sign and upload artifacts from CI

### Reproducible Builds
How many of our mods have build scripts with plugins or deps with unpinned floating
version specifiers in them?

I'm willing to bet all of them because both
[Fabric](https://github.com/FabricMC/fabric-example-mod/blob/1.20/build.gradle#L2) and
[Forge](https://github.com/MinecraftForge/MinecraftForge/blob/1.19.x/mdk/build.gradle#L4)
have example mods that do just that.

Gradle plugins like Loom and FG traditionally did this so that they could push fixes and
iterate quickly without user action, but it's important now to have auditability.

It's important that builds or reproducible because we want to be able to validate that a
given source revision maps to a given binary and back. More importantly, it also prevents
changes in the dependency tree from slipping in unnoticed.

Supply chain attacks from random modding Mavens being hacked is a very real threat.

#### Discussion and action items

- Update fabric-example-mod and forge MDK example to use Gradle lock files?
  https://docs.gradle.org/current/userguide/dependency_locking.html

### Sandboxing
Sandboxing the Minecraft process is another defense strategy that can be used to limit the
blast radius of attacks coming from malicious mod code.

Minecraft should only need access to:

- The internet, to authenticate, log into servers, etc.
- Filesystem access to the `.minecraft` instance folder and its recursive descendants

The main thing of interest to lock down here is filesystem access.

On Windows, 

(TODO idk windows mitigations)

On macOS,

(TODO idk macOS)

On Linux, we have a couple options. First is SELinux/AppArmor. These frameworks are
infamous for being insanely hard to configure and as a result have not been widely
deployed. However, the policies we seek are quite simple, so it's possible this could be
an avenue.

In OpenBSD parlance, all we want to do is [`unveil(2)`](https://man.openbsd.org/unveil) to
all paths in the instance root, but unfortunately this interface isn't available in Linux.

Second, is using a system such as Flatpak, but notably in its default configuration
Flatpak and other containerization systems [are not
sandboxes](https://hanako.codeberg.page/).

